sandboxes: document upstream proxy configuration (#25610)
docker/docker.github.io: content/manuals/ai/sandboxes/upstream-proxy.md

proxy entirely:

```console
$ sbx settings set no_proxy "*.internal.corp,10.0.0.0/8"    # both kinds of traffic
$ sbx settings set no_proxy.sandbox "*.svc.cluster.local"   # sandbox traffic only
$ sbx settings set no_proxy.daemon "registry.internal"      # daemon traffic only
```

## Environment variables

Because `sbx` runs from your shell, it also honors the standard and legacy proxy
environment variables, so existing setups keep working without migration:

- `HTTP_PROXY`, `HTTPS_PROXY`, and `NO_PROXY` (and their lowercase forms) — the
  standard variables. They apply to both kinds of traffic when no `proxy` or
  `no_proxy` setting is configured.
- `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_PROXY` and `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_NO_PROXY` — the environment
  form of `proxy.sandbox` and `no_proxy.sandbox`. They apply to sandbox traffic
  only and never affect daemon traffic.

The daemon reads these variables when it starts, so set them before your first
`sbx` command, or restart the daemon for a change to take effect.

## Precedence

For each kind of traffic, the first match wins:

1. The scope-specific setting (`proxy.sandbox` or `proxy.daemon`; sandbox traffic

>    can also use the `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_PROXY` environment variable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The scope-specific value:
   - `proxy.sandbox` or `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_PROXY` for sandbox traffic
   - `proxy.daemon` for daemon traffic
```

Author: Applied — the sub-bullets per scope read much better than the inline semicolon version.

<sub>Written by Claude Code on behalf of @robmry.</sub>

2. The `proxy` setting
3. `HTTP_PROXY` or `HTTPS_PROXY` from the shell
4. The OS system proxy (the default)
5. Direct

The matching exclusion list (`no_proxy.<scope>`, then `no_proxy`) applies to the
chosen proxy, and the standard `NO_PROXY` variable still applies on the
environment path.

> [!NOTE]
> The most specific value you set wins. Set nothing, and traffic uses the OS
> system proxy. A shell `HTTP_PROXY` counts as being set and takes precedence

> > over the OS setting, the same way `curl` behaves.

Reviewer: Maybe we could phrase this as an example instead, wdyt?

```suggestion
For example, if `proxy` specifies a shared proxy and `proxy.sandbox` is set to
`direct`, sandbox traffic connects directly while daemon traffic uses the
shared proxy. If no proxy setting is configured, `HTTP_PROXY` takes precedence
over the OS system proxy.
```

Author: Agreed, applied as suggested. The concrete example says more than the callout did, and it means one less callout on the page.

<sub>Written by Claude Code on behalf of @robmry.</sub>

## When changes take effect

The two kinds of traffic are resolved at different times:

- Sandbox scope (`proxy.sandbox`, `no_proxy.sandbox`, and the sandbox side of
  `proxy` and `no_proxy`) is re-resolved every time a sandbox is created or
  restarted. A change takes effect on the next sandbox you create or restart;
  already-running sandboxes keep the proxy they were created with.
- Daemon scope (`proxy.daemon`, `no_proxy.daemon`, the daemon side of `proxy` and

>   `no_proxy`, and the `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_*` environment variables) is resolved

Reviewer: I think a bullet separating timing from scope makes sense ☝️

>   `no_proxy`, and the `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_*` environment variables) is resolved

Author: > Great — I'll draft a separate bullet to make that distinction clearer. 

O rly?

>   `no_proxy`, and the `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_*` environment variables) is resolved

Author: Good catch, and both statements were true — it was the grouping that misled. Checked against the implementation before changing anything: sandbox-scope proxy config is resolved inside the daemon (`backend_dockernext.go` → `platform.ResolveUpstreamProxy`), so `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_*` really does control sandbox traffic only, while its *value* comes from the daemon's environment and is therefore fixed at daemon start.

Taken out of the daemon-scope bullet and given its own paragraph, so scope and timing are stated separately:

> The `DOCKER_SANDBOXES_*` environment variables are a separate case. They control
> sandbox traffic only, as described in
> [Environment variables](#environment-variables), but `sbx` reads them from the
> daemon's environment as the daemon starts, so changing one also requires a
> daemon restart.

<sub>Written by Claude Code on behalf of @robmry.</sub>
